+++
title = "Renegotiating Roles in Local Governments: Facing Resistances to Citizen Participation in Chile"
date = "2021-01-01"
authors = ["Matias Sanfuentes", "Matias Garreton"]
publication_types = ["2"]
publication = "Action Research, 19(2) 411--432. SAGE Publications https://doi.org/10.1177/1476750318801470"
publication_short = "Action Research, 19(2) 411--432. SAGE Publications https://doi.org/10.1177/1476750318801470"
abstract = "This article presents a reflective analysis of a participatory action research between the authors’ institution and the Community Development Directorate of Santiago Municipality. This work generated organizational change for implementing new citizen participation policies through a collective reflection about ambiguous roles and organizational paradoxes that allowed to harness the creative potential of emotions and embodied knowledge of public officers. Through workshops of organizational role analysis, a communicative space was built to contain the organizational contradictions generated by the lack of definitions of fieldwork agents’ roles and the insufficient institutional support. This led to implement a new approach for citizen participation, with an unprecedented inter-sectoral structure within this municipality. However, in the absence of structural incentives for internal cooperation, this development was abandoned by the authorities at the onset of an unsuccessful re-election campaign. Nevertheless, these temporary achievements show the usefulness of socio-analytic methods for transforming organizations in rigid institutional frameworks. This experience was a first attempt to provide institutional support for inter-sectoral citizen participation policies in Santiago, suggesting ways to generate and sustain long-term changes that are sorely needed in Chilean institutions."
abstract_short = ""
url_source = "https://doi.org/10.1177/1476750318801470"
tags = ["Others","Territorial factors","Territorial policies"]
url_code = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
